README.md, before:

# OTA Note RESTful API

This project is a simple implementation of a RESTful API with in-memory database using Spring Boot, inspired by Uncle Bob's Clean Architecture principles and because of this we could easily add tests for our controllers.

The repository setup is very simple, no git flow constraint and CI/CD in place, I have mostly focused on trying to create a clean foundation in the hopes to scale this project one day.

## Getting Started

To get started with this project, ensure you have the following installed:

- Java Development Kit (JDK) ~21.0.2
- Gradle ^8.7
- Git ^2.33
- Intellij Idea 2024.1 (Ultimate Edition)
  - Enable experimental features

_I recommend using Intellij Idea 2024.1 (Ultimate Edition) for an optimal development experience._

## Running the Project

To run the project, simply import it into your preferred IDE and execute the main class. The application will start on the default port 8080.

```console
user@laptop:~$ git clone https://github.com/miko-codes-a-lot/ota_note_api.git
user@laptop:~$ cd ota_note_api
user@laptop:~/ota_note_api$ idea .
```

_Please do reach out to me if you have trouble setting up the project!_

### Swagger UI - running HTTP Requests

http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/

![OpenAPI](https://gcdnb.pbrd.co/images/gn7v3g2HwSL6.png)

### cURL - running HTTP Requests

Creating a Note:

    curl -X 'POST' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/' \
      -H 'accept: */*' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{
      "title": "I am a todo!",
      "body": "I'\''m really surely positive I wont procrastinate"
    }'

Updating a Note:

    curl -X 'PUT' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/1' \
      -H 'accept: */*' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{
        "title": "I am a todo changes!!",
        "body": "I'\''m really surely positive I wont procrastinate"
    }'

Getting a Note:

    curl -X 'GET' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/1' \
      -H 'accept: */*'

Getting a list of Notes:

    curl -X 'GET' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/?query=&sortBy=title&page=0&pageSize=0' \
      -H 'accept: */*'

Delete a Note:

    curl -X 'DELETE' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/1' \
      -H 'accept: application/json'

Commit message:

modified README.md to highlight the ease of implementing automation testing

README.md, after:

# OTA Note RESTful API

This project is a simple implementation of a RESTful API with in-memory database using Spring Boot, inspired by Uncle Bob's Clean Architecture principles and because of this we could easily add tests for our controllers.

The repository setup is very simple, no git flow constraint and CI/CD in place, I have mostly focused on trying to create a clean foundation in the hopes to scale this project one day, as a result we can easily perform unit testing or implementation testing.

**`Implementation Testing`** as a result of a decoupled code base

![Implementation Testing](https://gcdnb.pbrd.co/images/l1wZX8Z3l09i.png)

_I was supposed to create Unit Tests as well but my time is running out_

## Getting Started

To get started with this project, ensure you have the following installed:

- Java Development Kit (JDK) ~21.0.2
- Gradle ^8.7
- Git ^2.33
- Intellij Idea 2024.1 (Ultimate Edition)
  - Enable experimental features

_I recommend using Intellij Idea 2024.1 (Ultimate Edition) for an optimal development experience._

## Running the Project

To run the project, simply import it into your preferred IDE and execute the main class. The application will start on the default port 8080.

```console
user@laptop:~$ git clone https://github.com/miko-codes-a-lot/ota_note_api.git
user@laptop:~$ cd ota_note_api
user@laptop:~/ota_note_api$ idea .
```

_Please do reach out to me if you have trouble setting up the project!_

### Swagger UI - running HTTP Requests

http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/

![OpenAPI](https://gcdnb.pbrd.co/images/gn7v3g2HwSL6.png)

### cURL - running HTTP Requests

Creating a Note:

    curl -X 'POST' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/' \
      -H 'accept: */*' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{
      "title": "I am a todo!",
      "body": "I'\''m really surely positive I wont procrastinate"
    }'

Updating a Note:

    curl -X 'PUT' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/1' \
      -H 'accept: */*' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{
        "title": "I am a todo changes!!",
        "body": "I'\''m really surely positive I wont procrastinate"
    }'

Getting a Note:

    curl -X 'GET' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/1' \
      -H 'accept: */*'

Getting a list of Notes:

    curl -X 'GET' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/?query=&sortBy=title&page=0&pageSize=0' \
      -H 'accept: */*'

Delete a Note:

    curl -X 'DELETE' \
      'http://localhost:8080/api/notes/1' \
      -H 'accept: application/json'
